# Котолюди

Вважається, що вони походять з центральної або південної частини Ґарунду,
котолюди, відомі між собою як амурруни, живуть повсюди навколо Внутрішнього
Моря. Легенди котолюдей стверджують, що коли Ґоларіон був вперше створений, боги
зробили котолюдей охоронцями, які повинні були полювати на загрози молодому
світу. Своєю спадковою батьківщиною вони вважають країну Муррасет на півдні
Ґарунду, хоча багатьох котолюдей приваблює принада подорожей. Рухомі своєю
культурою відкриттів і сплесками невгамовної енергії, вони з давніх часів
поширилися по всьому світу, переслідуючи свою любов до товариства і давнє
почуття обов'язку.

# КОТОЛЮДИ ВНУТРІШНЬОГО МОРЯ

Стародавня діаспора котолюдей створила окремі культури та етноси по всьому
світу, хоча багато з них живуть серед інших гуманоїдів настільки узгоджено, що
рідко утворюють окремі поселення.

## Аскедгакі

Askedhakis are diaspora catfolk commonly found in Vudra, Jalmeray, and Nex. They
tend to have striped hair or fur and wear light clothing suitable for travel in
oppressive heat and humidity. Most eke out their living as nomadic traders, but
their warriors traditionally hunt tigers, rakshasas, and other creatures that
prey on humanoids. As a mark of prestige and culture, Askedhakis usually wear
the most expensive jewelry they can afford in a variety of styles. They view
long fangs as an attractive sign of strength, and their artists and artisans
have developed various techniques for enhancing one’s fangs with metal.
Askedhakis typically have the clawed or flexible catfolk heritage and often take
the Saber Teeth ancestry feat.

## Mitzenki

Mitzenkis are indigenous to the Crown of the World and nearby arctic regions,
such as Iobaria and northern Arcadia. They often appear taller and brawnier than
most other catfolk, and they have either striped or spotted fur that ranges from
white to lightly colored. Their home conditions mean these catfolk rarely
encourage leaving their communities or traveling abroad, so they like to know
everything about their community and neighbors. Mitzenki armor, weapons, and
clothing traditionally feature leather and prominent bones. Mitzenkis
overwhelmingly have the winter catfolk heritage.

## Qittaj

The diasporic Qittaj catfolk are most common in Kelesh, including some parts of
eastern Qadira. They tend to have yellow or green eyes and striped bronze or
yellow fur. They frequent the busy, sunny marketplaces of Katheer and other
major cities as well as journey through major travel hubs and oases across the
empire. Qittaj catfolk also use surnames, an unusual practice among their kind,
generally taking on an ancestor’s title as the clan surname. They’re also some
of the most religious catfolk, often worshipping Sarenrae. Qittaj catfolk
typically have the nine lives or sharp-eared catfolk heritage.

## Sethurril

Sethurrils are the most populous catfolk ethnicity in Garund and Avistan. Their
ancestral home of Murraseth has stood as a rich and influential cultural
touchstone since the Age of Darkness, leading many amurruns to equate catfolk
culture with Sethurril culture. Sethurril fashion favors eye-catching,
multicolor garments with puffy sleeves or flowing cloaks. They’re especially
likely to worship Desna, whom they depict as a kindred catfolk explorer and
hunter of the monsters lurking at the world’s edges. Sethurrils most often have
the jungle or hunting catfolk heritage.

## Shemtej

Many believe Shemtej catfolk to be the favored children of Bastet and wardens of
dangerous spirits bound in the remote deserts of Osirion, Thuvia, and Rahadoum.
Male shemtej catfolk are known for growing full, leonine manes. Their culture
prioritizes free love, and Shemtejes largely disavow formalized marriage in
favor of more fluid relationship structures. Nomadic family groups known as
trains constantly change membership. Lovers come and go, children grow up and
seek their own paths, and elders leave to pursue their personal goals. Shemtejes
often have the nine lives or liminal catfolk heritage.

# SIDEBARS

## Other Catfolk

Numerous catfolk ethnicities exist beyond the Inner Sea. The black-spotted
Guarrxil of southern Arcadia are renowned for their principled mercenary
companies and heroic rangers. The mysterious Caimurru of the western Arcadian
coast trade more with First World caravans than with other mortals. The
Lyashtaki catfolk of the Valashmai Jungle sometimes make treks far from the
jungle via coast-hopping boats.

## Catfolk Luck

Catfolk are known for their luck, which they traditionally draw from spirits of
creation that they’ve pleased or emulated. Many catfolk tend to experience this
luck as an insistent urge that feels like a warning from a benevolent presence
they can’t perceive. Others experience it as a reflexive awareness of danger
beyond their normal senses. More spiritual catfolk try to tune into the warnings
from the spirits of fortune through an art known as serendipity reading.

## Murraseth

Murraseth is the largest of several remote catfolk-majority city-states in
central Garund. Even distant catfolk take pride in its guilds and its Houses of
Names—labyrinthine, live-in galleries for artists and performers who retell
catfolk discoveries and tales. Many catfolk consider visiting a House of Names
an important life milestone.

Guilds dominate Murraseth. Perhaps the most distinctive of these groups is the
Circle of Lifeshapers, comprised of polymorph specialists and healers.

# CATFOLK ANCESTRY FEATS

As a catfolk, you can select from among the following ancestry feats.

## 1ST LEVEL

### CAT NAP FEAT 1

**CATFOLK CONCENTRATE EXPLORATION**

You can briefly sleep to regain your energy quickly. Once per hour, by sleeping
for 10 minutes, you can gain temporary Hit Points equal to your level that last
for 10 minutes.

### CATFOLK DANCE [one-action] FEAT 1

**CATFOLK**

You have a habit of always being in the way when other creatures attempt to
move. Attempt an Acrobatics check against an adjacent creature’s Reflex DC.

**Critical Success** The target creature gains a –2 circumstance penalty to
Reflex saves and is flat-footed until the start of your next turn.

**Success** The target creature gains a –2 circumstance penalty to Reflex saves
until the start of your next turn.

### SABER TEETH FEAT 1

**CATFOLK**

You have long fangs, natural or augmented. You gain a jaws unarmed attack that
deals 1d6 piercing damage. Your jaws are in the brawling group and have the
unarmed trait.

### WINTER CAT SENSES FEAT 1

**CATFOLK**

You have long fangs, natural or augmented. You gain a jaws unarmed attack that
deals 1d6 piercing damage. Your jaws are in the brawling group and have the
unarmed trait.

**Prerequisites** winter catfolk heritage <sup>APG</sup>

Your eyes are keen and accustomed to winter conditions. You ignore concealment
caused by ice and snow.

## 5TH LEVEL

### FOCUSED CAT NAP FEAT 5

**CATFOLK**

**Prerequisites** Cat Nap, focus pool

When you Cat Nap, you can also Refocus as you dream of a relevant activity.

### GRACEFUL GUIDANCE FEAT 5

**CATFOLK**

You can demonstrate how to quickly twist out of the way of dangerous effects.
You can use the Aid reaction to grant a bonus to an ally’s Reflex save. As usual
for Aid, you need to prepare by using an action on your turn to encourage the
ally.

### LUCKY BREAK FEAT 5

**CATFOLK**

**Prerequisites** Cat’s Luck <sup>APG</sup>

You catch yourself as you make a mistake. You can trigger Cat’s Luck when you
fail or critically fail on an Athletics or Acrobatics skill check, in addition
to its normal trigger. When you do, you reroll the triggering skill check and
use the better result. This still counts against Cat’s Luck’s frequency, as
normal.

### PRIDE HUNTER FEAT 5

**CATFOLK**

You avoid the attention of creatures focused on your allies. You can use lesser
cover from your allies to Hide.

## 9TH LEVEL

### EVADE DOOM FEAT 9

**CATFOLK**

You can elude supernatural disaster. When you would gain the doomed condition,
you can attempt a DC 17 flat check. On a success, you don’t gain the doomed
condition.

### NO EVIDENCE FEAT 9

**CATFOLK**

**Prerequisites** expert in Survival

You leave little sign when attempting to remain unseen. When you Avoid Notice,
you also gain the benefits of Cover Tracks unless you choose not to.

### PREDATOR’S GROWL [reaction] FEAT 9

**CATFOLK**

**Prerequisites** expert in Intimidation

**Trigger** You successfully Seek a hidden or undetected creature.

You give a throaty growl to attempt to Demoralize a creature you just found. You
don’t take the –4 penalty for not sharing a language with the creature.

### SENSE FOR TROUBLE FEAT 9

**CATFOLK**

**Prerequisites** Cat’s Luck <sup>APG</sup>

You can tell when something’s off. You can trigger Cat’s Luck after you roll
initiative, in addition to its normal trigger, to reroll your Initiative and
take the higher of the two results. This still counts against Cat’s Luck’s
frequency, as normal.

### SILENT STEP [one-action] FEAT 9

**CATFOLK FLOURISH**

You vanish with silent treads. You Step, then Hide or Sneak. You still need to
meet the requirements to Hide or Sneak, as normal.

## 13TH LEVEL

### INSPIRIT HAZARD [reaction] FEAT 13

**CATFOLK CONCENTRATE OCCULT TRANSMUTATION**

**Frequency** once per day

**Trigger** You Disable a hazard.

**Requirements** The hazard isn’t broken.

You awaken a spirit of creation within the hazard. You learn the hazard’s
effects. Once in the next 10 minutes, when you observe a creature take an action
that would trigger one of the hazard’s reactions or free actions if you hadn’t
Disabled it, you can use a reaction to rearm the hazard, causing the observed
creature to trigger it immediately.

## 17TH LEVEL

### ELUDE TROUBLE [reaction] FEAT 17

**CATFOLK**

**Trigger** A creature misses you with a melee attack.

You slip through your foe’s opening. Stride up to your Speed. This movement
doesn’t trigger movement-based reactions from the creature that missed you.

### TEN LIVES FEAT 17

**CATFOLK**

**Prerequisites** Evade Doom

When your character would die, you can attempt a DC 17 flat check. On a success,
you’re instead reduced to 0 HP and a dying value 1 less than would normally kill
you (typically dying 3). This doesn’t change the result for any other creature
affected.
