# Absalom and Starstone Isle

### Нації

**Absalom [N]**

**Grand Council**

**Capital:** Absalom (303,900)

### Peoples

All

### Languages

All

### Factions

Firebrands

Knights of Lastwall

Pathfinder Society

### Religions

Abadar

Cayden Cailean

Iomedae

Irori

Norgorber

Shelyn

### Resources

Alcohol/Drugs

Armor/Weapons

Books/Lore

Lumber

Jewelry/Gems

Luxury Goods and Art

Magic Items

Ores

Seafood

Ships

Skymetal

Textiles

### Map

ISLE OF ERRAN

Abberton

Aeon Tower

Escadar

KORTOS MOUNTS

THE SCRAPE

IMMENWOOD

CAIRNLANDS

SWARDLANDS

DUNMIRE

INNER SEA

The Welt

Elyon

Kerrick

Diobel

Galizhur

Willowside

Pier’s End

Rovagug’s Hall

Riven Hills

Hazrak

Flesk

High Harbor

Bosco

Tyrant’s Grasp

Absalom

Otari

Thousands of years after Earthfall tore a rift across continents to form the
Inner Sea, the legendary hero Aroden emerged from the darkness of history to
claim his divine destiny. Using arcane power gathered over millennia, the last
survivor of Old Azlant raised an otherworldly crystal, the heart of the weapon
that slew his homeland, from the depths of the Inner Sea. Aroden’s interaction
with this alien gem, the Starstone, tested his character, and he emerged from
the experience a living god.

Immediately thereafter, he lifted the whole of the Isle of Kortos from the ocean
depths and founded the settlement of Absalom at the site of his apotheosis to
serve as the gathering point of his growing cult. He named the island
Kortos—“Starstone” in the ancient Azlanti tongue. Nearly 5,000 years later,
despite the death of the god who founded it, this settlement has grown to become
one of the largest metropolises on Golarion, known to many as the City at the
Center of the World.

Aroden declared himself the patron not just of the Azlanti, but of all humanity,
and called mystics from all the human lands to gather in Absalom and share their
secrets. Pilgrims came to Absalom from Osirion, Qadira, Taldor, and beyond to
honor the city’s mighty god-king, marvel at his seemingly impossible
accomplishments, and strive to accomplish fantastic deeds of their own, many
founding orders and institutions of esoteric learning that continue to the
modern day.

The swiftly growing riches of Absalom—and the priceless jewel at its heart— drew
more than just pilgrims in those early days. Lured by far-flung tales of
Aroden’s ascension via the Starstone, the minotaur warlord Voradni Voon,
conqueror of central Casmaron, plotted to wrest the stone from humanity’s god
and take his own place among the deities. Voon constructed the massive Brazen
Gate upon the great eastern plateau of Kortos, and through it marched his horde
of minotaurs, harpies, and centaurs from the distant land of Iblydos to Kortos,
and thence to Absalom.

Voon’s attack, later remembered as the First Siege of Absalom, reached all the
way to the walls of Azlanti Keep before being turned back by Aroden himself. The
Last Azlanti pushed Voon and his army back to the plateau, wracking it with a
series of powerful earthquakes that shattered the Brazen Gate and scattered the
minotaur’s forces. Voon’s assault was but the first, however; would-be
conquerors have besieged Absalom more than 100 times in the 5 millennia since
the First Siege. Yet the city has never fallen.

Not every would-be god came to Absalom with an army at their back. Over the
years, at least three humans—Norgorber (1893 ar), Cayden Cailean (2765 ar), and
Iomedae (3832 ar)—used more subtle means to gain access to the Starstone
Cathedral and use it to ascend to godhood. Their followings, as well as those
cults dedicated to countless hopefuls who weren’t so successful, added to
Absalom’s growing religious communities, with new temples attempting to make
converts among the city’s assembled religious truthseekers and fanatics.

The Whispering Tyrant Tar-Baphon, an old foe of Aroden, is Absalom’s most recent
would-be conqueror, having launched a surprise attack on the city just 2 months
ago in a bold assault that drew parallels to the initial siege of Voradni Voon.
Adventuring heroes came to Absalom’s defense, as they had so many times in the
past, to defeat the lich-lord and send him back to the Isle of Terror.
Absalomians are certain that the Tyrant will return again in the coming years
with an even greater force of undead horrors, however. The only question is how
many would-be conquerors will show up outside Absalom’s walls between now and
then.

## Absalom

Absalom boasts some of the finest—and oldest—buildings and monuments on the
Inner Sea. Over nearly 5 millennia, Absalom has been built, rebuilt, and rebuilt
again, resulting in a tapestry of architectural styles as diverse as the
countless citizens and visitors who throng its streets and markets.

Nearly a dozen districts huddle within the city’s walls, each as large or larger
than the capitals of other nations, and each with numerous neighborhoods and
intrigues tempting to both common residents and thrill-seeking adventurers
alike. These districts include the following.

### Ascendant Court

Shortly after raising the Isle of Kortos, Aroden used his newfound divine power
to erect the Starstone Cathedral, a bewildering, ever-changing series of trapped
passages and confounding chambers meant to thwart anyone who might follow in his
footsteps. The cathedral perches upon a lonely tor at the center of a seemingly
bottomless chasm at the heart of Absalom.

Enormous, ostentatious temples to the great gods of Golarion ring the chasm and
the ancient neighborhoods stretching out from it, flanked by lesser churches and
shrines dedicated to deities mighty and forgotten. The district’s oldest temple
of Aroden—the first of its kind in Absalom—is among the architectural triumphs
of the Inner Sea. As perhaps the best symbol of the fall of Absalom’s founding
father, the earthquake-damaged edifice now serves as the Embassy of Cheliax.

### Azlanti Keep

Aroden himself designed and erected this multitowered fortified keep, and the
structure’s traditional ancient Azlanti style has been widely imitated
throughout Absalom and the Inner Sea region over the ages. The keep is the
headquarters for the First Guard—Absalom’s army that polices external threats.

The keep’s Grand Vault once served as a refuge for the city’s entire populace in
dire emergencies, as it did during the First Siege, but although the vault is
immense, the city’s population is now too great for all to shelter there. The
vault also holds the huge tablets containing Aroden’s First Laws of Absalom, the
foundation of its civic government.

### The Coins

Much of Absalom’s mercantile activity takes place in this sprawling hive of
crowded streets and teeming markets. From dawn to dusk, hawkers tout their wares
to streetwise customers, haggling in a hundred languages amid bleating
livestock, performing musicians, and the grind of wagon wheels on cobblestones.

The city’s largest market, the Grand Bazaar, is said to contain nearly any
object a buyer could ever want, provided they take the considerable time to
search through the plaza’s hundreds of brightly flagged stalls and semipermanent
shops to find it. By night, many of the district’s seedier neighborhoods become
havens of violent crime, as pickpockets and thieves from the Puddles and the
Docks wander north in search of heavy purses.

One of the most dangerous neighborhoods in the Coins was once one of its most
lucrative: an elevated stone platform known as Misery Row, the center of
Absalom’s now-outlawed slave trade. Today, the neighborhood is the center of a
run-down slum avoided by the district’s famously corrupt watch (known cynically
as the Token Guard). The squalid chambers within the raised causeway, formerly
known as the Slave Pits of Absalom, are today inhabited by some of the city’s
most desperate and depraved criminals.

### The Docks

Absalom’s teeming waterfront is a district of taverns, flophouses, and
warehouses echoing with sailors’ chanteys, barking dockworkers, and the
trundling of wagons carrying cargo through crowded streets. Hundreds of ships
from all over Golarion dock in Absalom’s harbor every day, and goods from scores
of nations flow through the Docks to the city’s markets.

A maze of half-sunken ships called the Flotsam Graveyard guards Absalom’s harbor
from invasion by sea, as do detachments of the city’s navy and
hippocampus-mounted Wave Riders, who patrol the Bay of Kortos and the waters
around the Starstone Isle from their base in Escadar.

### Eastgate

It sometimes takes 2 hours or more to get from Eastgate to districts on the far
side of town, but most residents find the long commute a fair exchange for the
relative safety of Eastgate’s cozy neighborhoods. A few manor homes of minor
nobles peek above the thatched roofs of this district, which houses many more
workers and artisans than hobnobbing members of high society. The Low Azlanti
enclave of Gilltown—the city’s largest gathering of this ancient line of aquatic
humans—is also found here, situated out of sight of major roads behind a row of
inexpensive housing for the district watch, laborers, and clerks.

Eastgate’s verdant Green Ridge neighborhood is home to the Grand Holt, the
oldest and largest tree on the Isle of Kortos. This multi-trunked fig tree spans
several city blocks, with buildings demolished or modified to account for its
increasingly fecund growth (especially in the last decade). Even as blights like
the Tyrant’s Grasp and the Welt seem to rob Kortos of its vitality, the Grand
Holt grows stronger year after year.

A fanatic cult called the Circle of Stones cares for the tree, as well as for
Iolanthe, the immortal dryad queen who dwells within. The Holt provides a refuge
for natureloving adventurers like druids and rangers, whom the cult hires to
tackle all manner of adventures designed to further Iolanthe’s influence in the
city and Greater Kortos.

### Foreign Quarter

Absalom’s Foreign Quarter boasts whole neighborhoods that take on the character
of distant lands. Taverns, hostels, and inns crowd the streets nearest the
district’s largest thoroughfares, attracting those who come to Absalom by road
or by sea to rest a while among cordial strangers chattering in a symphony of
languages. Foremost among the district’s attractions is the Irorium, an immense
coliseum that hosts gladiatorial combats, mock sea-battles, religious festivals,
historical pageants, and more.

The largest open-air arena on the Inner Sea, the Irorium boasts multiple public
battles each day, and its gladiators count themselves among the city’s most
influential celebrities. The imposing structure takes its name from Irori, and
that deity’s clergy administers an influential temple and fighting college in
the arena’s understructure that draws combatants from all over Golarion.

Not far from the arena is the Grand Lodge of Absalom, the worldwide headquarters
for the Pathfinder Society adventurer’s guild. Beyond a massive gate bearing the
Glyph of the Open Road lie seven ancient fortresses, each with its own function
related to the Society’s worldwide affairs. Adventurers set out from the Grand
Lodge on missions through Greater Kortos and far beyond, with all Pathfinder
agents invited to return home to the Lodge every year for the order’s Grand
Convocation, a boisterous occasion for information-sharing and engaging in
friendly competition.

#### Archaic Wayfinders

Discovery of the ancient Azlanti aeon stones, and their subsequent reverse
engineering to create wayfinders, counted among the first triumphs of the
Pathfinder Society. Over the centuries, wayfinders have taken on a homogenous
design, with the vast majority being virtually identical copies of one another,
meticulously crafted to an exact formula by the Society’s artificers. Things
were not always so orthodox, however, and examples of archaic wayfinders can
still be found at the bottom of forgotten pit traps and in the collections of
wealthy Pathfinder agents across the city.

### ARCHAIC WAYFINDER (ITEM 2)

***

**UNCOMMON EVOCATION MAGICAL**

**Price** 30 gp **Usage** held in 1 hand; **Bulk** — **Activate** *Cast a Spell*

***

An *archaic wayfinder* functions as a compass and acts as a repository for one
cantrip cast into it. To fill an *archaic wayfinder*, a spellcaster casts the
chosen cantrip into the empty device, providing any necessary cost; the spell
cannot be one that is normally cast as a free action or reaction. Activating an
*archaic wayfinder* is the same as the casting for the relevant spell. Once it
has been activated, it becomes empty again. An *archaic wayfinder* can hold an
aeon stone and activate its resonant power. An *archaic wayfinder* counts
against the limit of one wayfinder with a slotted resonant aeon stone.

### Ivy District

Absalom’s center of art and culture, the Ivy District boasts gorgeous manor
houses, beautiful gardens, and equally alluring residents. Theaters, performance
halls, and concert venues with worldwide reputations crowd the ivy-lined streets
that give the district its name, as do dozens more with less savory standing.
Performers and artists scrape by on the patronage of nobles, and bardic schools
like the White Grotto train the next generation of performers. Perhaps due to
its natural beauty, the Ivy District is particularly popular with elves and
half-elves.

### The Petal District

The wealthiest district in all of Absalom looks down upon the city from its
perch on Aroden’s Hill. Brick-framed medians upon the district’s broad avenues
stand lush with colorful flora, giving the district its name. The richest noble
families and the most powerful merchant lords and guildmasters keep manors in
the Petal District, ever striving to outdo one another with the ostentation of
their estates. The city’s oldest academy of magical instruction, the College of
Mysteries, is tucked among these wealthy mansions and caters largely to the
youth of Absalom’s nobility. The irezoko, the enigmatic full-face magical
tattoos of the college’s master students, are a badge of honor in the Petal
District equal to the finest and most luxuriant of gowns designed by the city’s
master tailors.

### Precipice Quarter

Twenty years ago, a terrible earthquake sheared the cliffside district of
Beldrin’s Bluff into the harbor below and collapsed many of the grand structures
of what had been a carnival-like quarter of soaring pavilions, penny museums,
cacophonous menageries, and stately manors situated around the three-towered
demesne of the long-dead archmage Beldrin, a major figure of Absalom’s early
years. In the wake of the catastrophe, the Grand Council effectively abandoned
the district, leaving it to become infested with monsters and criminals.

Acting Primarch Wynsal Starborn, himself a retired captain of Absalom’s First
Guard, has rejected his predecessor’s laissez-faire attitude toward the
district, and for the past 3 years his office has sponsored expeditions aimed at
reclaiming the quarter. The efforts have met with some success, but among the
reclaimed greenhouses and galleries are cursed mausoleums, flooded schoolyards
inhabited by undead children, and other horrors. The Precipice Quarter is on its
way to redemption, but considerable dangerous work remains to see the job
through.

### The Puddles

The slum district known as the Puddles has always been prone to flooding, but in
the last decade things have grown increasingly desperate, with water now
covering the majority of the district’s streets to the height of a human’s
thighs or deeper.

Those residents who refuse to flee (including no small number deliberately
hiding out from Absalom’s city watch) have taken to building makeshift bridges
and ramps between the district’s notoriously close-packed buildings, resulting
in a vast and confounding network of skyways capable of delivering brave
travelers with a strong sense of balance from one end of the district to
another.

### Westgate

This sleepy, largely safe residential district is home to mid-tier merchants,
common shopkeeps, and up-and-coming citizens who can’t yet afford more expensive
accommodation in the upscale neighborhoods of the Petal or Ivy Districts.

Businesses mix with townhouses and flats where the district abuts the Foreign
Quarter, but Westgate gets more residential as one approaches the city wall,
with smaller homes giving way to modest manors and stately villas.

### The Wise Quarter

Absalom’s reputation as a center of learning in Golarion dates back to its
earliest days. Famed institutions like the Arcanamirium arcane school, Blakros
Museum, and the great library of the Forae Logos contribute to Absalom’s
academic pedigree, drawing knowledge-hungry students from all over the world.

The Wise Quarter holds these institutions and scores more, and its broad avenues
throng with students and instructors alike. The district is also home to
Absalom’s civic government, including the ancient, monolithic meeting palace of
the Grand Council and the honeycomb array of administrative buildings that serve
its vast bureaucracy.

## Greater Kortos

Absalom claims all of the Isle of Kortos as its domain, but several wild regions
remain outside the city’s direct control. From coast to coast, signs of the
island’s extreme antiquity are evident everywhere, from the overgrown fortresses
of the Immenwood to the crumbling Aeon Towers of the Swardlands. Descriptions of
several important Kortos locales follow.

### Cairnlands

The barren wasteland surrounding Absalom is littered with scores of siege
castles— monuments to the failed invasions of 5 millennia whose near-forgotten
chambers now are home to monsters, brigands, and the unquiet dead. The
strongholds vary in size from the mile-tall Spire of Nex 10 miles north of the
city to the tumbledown Pyramid of the Dog just outside the Puddles. Enticing
rumors of undiscovered chambers and unclaimed treasures in siege castles just
beyond the city walls beckon adventurers to explore their darkened depths.

### Diobel

The so-called “Back Door to Absalom” squats upon a wide, wooden boardwalk at the
end of a shallow harbor on the island’s southwest coast. Cargo-laden barges skim
over rich oyster beds between the bustling trade town and the Trawl, a maze of
steep stonework walls crusted with seaweed, barnacles, and small shellfish.

All commercial traffic coming through the Trawl falls under the careful scrutiny
of the Kortos Consortium, an association of guildmasters and merchant lords who
control the island’s considerable mining, farming, trapping, fishing, and
oyster-harvesting trades and administer Diobel’s many thriving markets. It’s an
open secret that they also control a conduit for illicit goods smuggled into and
out of Absalom by road without risking the scrutiny of the Harbor Guard.

The Consortium’s corruption makes Diobel a hotbed of political intrigue against
the high and mighty of Absalom, inspiring a chaotic atmosphere, and while the
group keeps everything well regulated, there’s a sense that this arrangement
could collapse at any moment.

### Dunmire

North of the Kortos Mounts, the isle slopes toward the sea and the central
lowlands sink into the Dunmire, a vast bog shrouded in thick fog that reaches a
human’s knees. The miasma conceals all manner of filth and disease, and isolated
enclaves of kobolds, lizardfolk, hags, and criminal outcasts huddle under its
cover. The First Guard’s Eagle Garrison long ago ceded the Dunmire to
wilderness, making it effectively outside the legal authority of Absalom. A
squalid little village called Pier’s End sits upon a deep harbor on the coast,
offering cheap ferries to Escadar for the rare cross-island traveler who manages
to survive travel through the swamp.

### The Immenwood

The vast, primordial woodland north of Absalom has provided lumber to the city
and its vassals for almost as long as it has sheltered its enemies and outcasts.
To the west, past the bustling town of Meravon— epicenter of the island’s
logging trade—the magic of the Old Forest Aeon Tower once enriched the soil and
bolstered regrowth. In the island’s earliest days, trees in the western
Immenwood grew taller and faster than elsewhere on the island, and Kortos grew
rich exporting wood to Qadira and the northern coast of Garund. The death of
Aroden weakened the tower’s magic, however, and now the harvested trees
replenish at the normal rate—perhaps even slower—and the lumber barons of the
Kortos Consortium look to druids in hopes of restoring the forest to its
previous glory.

The central Immenwood is older and craggier than the outskirts, prone to tangled
undergrowth, an intertwined canopy, and long shadows. The forest’s eastern reach
touches the Tyrant’s Grasp, where blighted trees grow warped and twisted by the
necromantic corruption left by Tar-Baphon’s defeat, and the clearings are
haunted by undead wretches and sinister cultists of the Whispering Way. The
Immenwood hides many ruins and lost settlements, along with several active
fortresses. The wooded foothills of the Kortos Mounts hold mines, both active
and inactive, almost all of which have inhabitants of one kind or another.

Patrols of the First Guard’s Eagle Garrison range the trails connecting the
forest’s settlements, which often fall prey to outlaws. The centaur tribes that
dwell in the forest are more hospitable than their violent, xenophobic cousins
of the Scrape, but they’ve suffered terribly at the hands of Absalom in recent
years, and tensions remain high.

### Kortos Mounts

The soaring mountains of central Kortos loom large behind Absalom’s skyline when
viewed from the sea and are as identifiable to sailors and islanders as the
Absalom Lighthouse, Eastgate’s Blue Tower, and the Spire of Nex. Several large
mountains, some capped with snow and ice, cut distinctive enough silhouettes
against the sky as to take on cultural significance even to folk who never leave
Absalom.

Most notable are Mount Ganog, Arazlant Mox, and the Weeping Grandfather, each of
which has its own legends, tavern songs, and folklore. Twisting crevices and
sharp ridges make travel through the region a treacherous proposition, to say
nothing of the vicious harpies who roost in secluded defiles and crude villages
at the tree line’s edge, or the drakes, wyverns, and dragons who lurk nearer the
rocky peaks.

### The Scrape

When Voradni Voon’s Brazen Arch thrummed to life as a magical portal at the
center of the isle’s eastern plateau, the warlord called his armies from a
continent away, and a seemingly infinite horde of minotaurs, harpies, and
centaurs burst onto the Isle of Kortos. The plateau thundered with the hooves of
10,000 centaurs, whole tribes surging in vast interlocking circles to unleash a
terrible earthquake upon Absalom, just as they had brought upheaval to so many
of the ancient cities of Casmaron.

Aroden reversed their seismic magic back upon them, killing Voradni Voon and
shattering the Brazen Arch into a dozen jagged fragments. Countless centaurs
toppled into deep rifts as the landscape cracked and seethed in violent
destruction. After the rending of the Brazen Arch, the devastated eastern
plateau became known as the Scrape. Most of the surviving minotaurs fled into
the Riven Hills, where they harry Absalom and its allies to this day from their
settlement at Hazrak. Voon’s feral harpies, the last to give up the fight, fled
to the highlands of the Kortos Mounts, and they have grown no more hospitable
over the centuries.

### Swardlands

Kortos owes its great bounty not just to the fertile fields of its western
reaches, but also to the enormous Aeon Towers and their *aeon orbs* that have
magically sustained its flora since antiquity. Unknown parties stole the *aeon
orb* near Willowside a decade ago, leaving its tower a crumbling cenotaph
incapable of holding back a strange environmental devastation known as the Welt,
which grows from the western edge of the Dunmire by a mile each year.

The Old Forest Tower near the lumber town of Meravon once ensured the health and
regrowth of the western Immenwood, but its powers grow weaker and weaker each
season. The other three Aeon Towers still function for now, but their caretakers
look on uneasily and wonder how long they—and the famous agricultural prosperity
of Kortos—can endure.

### Tyrant’s Grasp

The site of the Whispering Tyrant’s defeat is a blasted wasteland of necromantic
corruption stretching nearly 15 miles across the plains, forest, and hills
northeast of the Spire of Nex. The lich seemingly perished in a tremendous blast
of magical energy that wrenched the undead lord’s right hand from its bony
wrist, and the skeletal hand remains there still, unwilling to loosen its grip
upon the Isle of Kortos. Cultists of the Whispering Way flock to the tainted
land, seeing it as the most likely beachhead for their lord’s inevitable return
to claim his hand and the *Starstone*.

The First Guard has annihilated three attempted settlements by these dark
devotees, but their numbers seem to be growing. Undead creatures— always a
potential menace in the Cairnlands—are notably more numerous within this region.
Undead within the Tyrant’s Grasp gain the ability to sense living creatures as
an imprecise sense with a range of 30 feet. They also gain resistance to
positive energy equal to their level.

## The Isle of Erran

From the earliest days, the Isle of Erran was a place set apart from the domain
of mortals, kept sacrosanct as a personal refuge for Aroden and his most trusted
devotees. It’s said that Erran holds more secrets than all volumes of the
*Pathfinder Chronicles* combined, as the isle’s northern forests contain
hundreds of tombs and monoliths unrelated to Aroden or his religion. Absalom’s
navy frequently uncovers these ruins as they cut down sections of the forests to
obtain lumber for ship construction, and they often hire adventurers to explore
their strange discoveries.

### Escadar

In ancient times, Escadar was the site of an important Arodenite monastery
called St. Sarnax, the training academy and esoteric library of the Knights of
the Aeon Star, an order of holy sword-mages who accompanied Aroden in the
uncertain days before his ascension. Although the island’s northern reaches
remained reserved for Aroden’s exclusive personal use for centuries after his
last appearance in Absalom, St. Sarnax and its small port community remained
open to Aroden’s clergy, with many visiting to consult ancient Azlanti
manuscripts not recorded in Absalom’s Forae Logos library. Only three elderly
Knights of the Aeon Star remain today to maintain St. Sarnax, but the white
marble monastery still shines as brightly on the southern shores of Escadar as
it did in Aroden’s day.

Five centuries ago, Absalom fortified the harbor at St. Sarnax as headquarters
for the city’s mighty navy, naming the expanded settlement Escadar after a hero
of the Pirate Siege. Scores of warships crowd Escadar’s harbor, from which they
set out on regular missions escorting merchant ships, hunting pirates, or
patrolling the nearby seaways. When in port, sailors mix in Escadar’s numerous
barracks, saloons, gambling dens, and drug parlors. Escadar also features the
House of the Cresting Wave, an embassy of the Low Azlanti, who dredge treasures
from the sea to hock in the city’s modest public markets.

## BACKGROUNDS

The following backgrounds are particularly suitable for characters from the
Absalom region.

**CHILD OF THE PUDDLES (BACKGROUND)**

You grew up in the soggy, squalid quarter of Absalom known as the Puddles.
You’re at home in tightly packed urban environments.

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or Intelligence, and one is
a free ability boost.

You’re trained in the Acrobatics skill and the Absalom Lore skill. You gain the
Steady Balance skill feat.

**DIOBEL PEARL DIVER (BACKGROUND)**

You spent a portion of your youth diving and gathering precious pearls under the
attentive eyes of Kortos Consortium merchants.

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or Dexterity, and one is
a free ability boost.

You’re trained in the Athletics skill and the Ocean Lore skill. You gain the
Underwater Marauder skill feat.

**FREED SLAVE OF ABSALOM (BACKGROUND)**

As a recently freed slave in Absalom, you belong to a new, closeknit social
class at the heart of the city’s most important trades.

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or Intelligence, and one
is a free ability boost.

You’re trained in the Society skill and the Absalom Lore skill. You gain the
Streetwise skill feat.

**GRAND COUNCIL BUREAUCRAT (BACKGROUND)**

You spent years working as a clerk to a functionary in Absalom’s government.
Your service taught you a thing or two about rousing speeches and manipulating
the city’s bureaucracy.

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Charisma or Intelligence, and one is a
free ability boost.

You’re trained in the Society skill and the Government Lore skill. You gain the
Group Impression skill feat.

**INLANDER (BACKGROUND)**

You grew up in an untamed region of the Isle of Kortos, and you know how to
survive in the wild.

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or Wisdom, and one is a
free ability boost.

You’re trained in the Survival skill and a Lore skill related to the terrain
type associated with your home region (such as Hills Lore or Mountains Lore).
You gain the Survey Wildlife skill feat.

**MENAGERIE DUNG SWEEPER (BACKGROUND)**

Whether you washed warrior beasts below the Irorium’s arena floor or tended to
the mutated animals of a Puddle sideshow, you are experienced with all manner of
weird wildlife.

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or Wisdom, and one is a
free ability boost.

You’re trained in the Nature skill and the Animal Lore skill. You gain the Train
Animal skill feat.

**PATHFINDER HOPEFUL (BACKGROUND)**

You’ve long wanted to join the adventurous Pathfinder Society. You have taken up
the dangerous life of an adventurer in hopes of earning a spot among the
Pathfinders.

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or Intelligence, and one
is a free ability boost.

You’re trained in the Society skill and the Pathfinder Society Lore skill. You
gain the Additional Lore skill feat.

**TRADE CONSORTIUM UNDERLING (BACKGROUND)**

Your experience as a ledger-keeper for one of Absalom’s trade guilds has made
you a canny investor and shrewd entrepreneur.

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or Wisdom, and one is a
free ability boost.

You’re trained in the Society skill and the Business Lore skill. You gain the
Experienced Professional skill feat.

## Pathfinder Agent

You’re a field agent of the globe-trotting Pathfinder Society, sworn to report,
explore, and cooperate. You explore the world, gathering artifacts and
antiquities, and record your adventures for posterity

### PATHFINDER AGENT DEDICATION (FEAT 2)

***

**UNCOMMON ARCHETYPE DEDICATION**

**Prerequisites** member of the Pathfinder Society; **Access** You are from
Absalom.

***

Your Pathfinder training has broadened your horizons and made you more flexible
at various skills, since you never know when you might need an obscure skill to
complete your mission. You become trained in one skill of your choice, or expert
in a skill of your choice in which you were trained. You also become trained in
Pathfinder Lore, or an expert if you were already trained. When using a skill
untrained, your proficiency bonus is equal to your level instead of 0. You gain
access to wayfinders (Core Rulebook page 617).

**Special** You cannot select another dedication feat until you have gained two
other feats from the Pathfinder agent archetype.

### CAREFUL EXPLORER (FEAT 4)

***

**АРХЕТИП**

**Prerequisites** Pathfinder Agent Dedication

***

You’ve explored enough dusty tombs and hidden vaults to gain a sixth sense about
traps, and you sometimes notice them even when you’re not trying to. Even if you
aren’t Searching in exploration mode, you get a check to find traps that
normally require you to Search for them. You still need to meet any other
requirements to find the trap.

### DEFT COOPERATION (FEAT 4)

***

**АРХЕТИП**

**Prerequisites** Pathfinder Agent Dedication

***

When you set things up to help your allies, you also gain some of the fruits of
your labors. When you successfully Aid an attack roll or AC, you gain a +1
circumstance bonus to attack rolls or AC against that enemy until the end of
your next turn, whichever you granted to your ally. When you successfully Aid a
skill check, if you attempt the exact same skill check (not just using the same
skill, but using it for the same purpose, for instance a check to Climb the same
wall) on your next turn, you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to your skill check.

### THOROUGH REPORTS (FEAT 4)

***

**ARCHETYPE SKILL**

**Prerequisites** Pathfinder Agent Dedication

***

Your reports are thorough and informative, and putting your thoughts to paper
helps you retain the information. Keep track of each type of creature you
successfully identify with Recall Knowledge. When attempting Recall Knowledge
checks against creatures on your list in later encounters, you gain a +2
circumstance bonus, and you learn an additional fact about such creatures on a
success.

### WAYFINDER RESONANCE TINKERER (FEAT 4)

***

**ARCHETYPE SKILL**

**Prerequisites** Pathfinder Agent Dedication

***

You can use the unusual resonance of your wayfinder to grant it additional
effects. Choose one cantrip from the arcane, divine, occult, or primal list. You
can activate your wayfinder to cast that cantrip at will. Additionally, you can
Activate your wayfinder with a [one-action] (envision) activation to transform
it into a nondescript pin or brooch to hide your affiliation with the Pathfinder
Society. This transformation lasts for 1 hour.


# SIDEBARS

## TIMELINE

1 AR Aroden raises the Starstone (and the Isle of Kortos itself) from the depths
of the Inner Sea and becomes a living god. He founds Absalom as a new home for
the thousands of faithful flocking to the newly risen island to honor the site
of his apotheosis.

23 AR First Siege of Absalom. Voradni Voon attacks Absalom, mustering vast
centaur armies across the island’s eastern plateau to overwhelm the young city’s
defenses. With the sweep of his hand, Aroden sunders the plateau in a great
upheaval, slaying Voon and trapping his minions in the hinterlands of Kortos.

166 AR The Archmage Nex unsuccessfully besieges Absalom, erecting the mile-tall
Spire of Nex outside the city in what is now known as the Cairnlands.

430 AR The Pirate Siege of Absalom. After Aroden leaves Absalom to more fully
embrace his divinity, villains from across the Inner Sea seek to take advantage
of his absence by conducting a series of raids and naval blockades against the
city. Absalom is forced to rely on foreign mercenaries to protect itself, which
they do in exchange for grants of land and titles.

1298 AR The mysterious Prophet Kings attack Absalom in the Siege of Prophets.
Starwatch Keep is built in response to the threat.

2850 AR The Conjured Siege. The Arclords of Nex attack Absalom, but are
eventually turned away by the city’s defenders.

3637 AR The Numerian “Machine Mage” Karamoss assaults Absalom in an attempt to
claim the Starstone as an unparalleled power source. His metal automatons are
defeated by the city’s druids.

4137 AR Under the banner of the expansionist prince Haliad I, Cheliax
unsuccessfully lays siege to Absalom for the first time, following up with three
additional attempts in the next 3 centuries.

4307 AR The Pathfinder Society is founded in Absalom.

4606 AR Aroden dies, triggering the beginning of the Age of Lost Omens.

4717 AR The Fiendflesh Siege. Acting Siege Lord Wynsal Starborn orders the
manumission of all slaves in Absalom willing to fight in defense of the city.
Slave trading and slavery in Absalom is thereafter abolished by popular decree
of the Grand Council.

4719 AR The current year. The same month that adventurers thwart the Whispering
Tyrant’s surprise attack on Absalom, Watcher-Lord Ulthun II of the fallen nation
of Lastwall and his decimated retinue arrive to a heroes’ welcome.

## NOTABLE FIGURES

The following figures are important to Absalom and the Isle of Kortos.

**SCION LORD AVID OF HOUSE ARNSEN, TERIARCH OF DIOBEL**

Lord Avid hopes to use the disappearance of Lord Gyr of Gixx to find a way to
get himself named Primarch in his stead.

**WYNSAL STARBORN**

The High Council named Wynsal Starborn, respected retired captain of the city’s
First Guard, Siege Lord of Absalom during the Fiendflesh Siege of 4717.

**WATCHER-LORD ULTHUN II**

Lastwall’s final Watcher-Lord fled to Absalom only months ago. This Nidalese
paladin lord remains hugely influential even in defeat.

**THE DECEMVIRATE**

The masked ruling body of the famous explorers’ organization known as the
Pathfinder Society, this council is composed of 10 of the most experienced
Pathfinders.

## ECONOMICS

International trade lies at the heart of Absalom’s longevity and wealth, and
remains fundamental to the realm’s independence and political strength in the
greater Inner Sea region. Lumber harvested in the Immenwood travels by the
Deluge River to Diobel or by road to Otari, and from thence to markets across
the Inner Sea.

Diobelian pearls, harvested from the oyster beds of Diobel’s shallow harbor, are
considered among the finest available in the markets of the Inner Sea. Iron and
other precious metals and stones mined on the island (especially by the dwarven
mining enclave at Galizhur) feed Absalom’s many craftworks, whose products are
exported worldwide. Skymetals harvested from the Diobel Hills or discovered on
the ocean floor and traded to the city by Low Azlanti are among the most
sought-after treasures in the world.

## THE SHADOW WAR

The web of control between the city’s primarch, Grand Council, Low Council, and
other powerful actors is a complex one that can be manipulated by tugging on the
right strand. Absalom’s factions and noble houses use their connections and sway
to manipulate the workings of the city, from choosing who sits on the Low
Council to the price of onions. This struggle for influence, known as the Shadow
War, is something of an open secret, and those who know where to look can spot
the political agenda behind seemingly pointless civil squabbles.

## RELATIONS

Numerous factions vie for control over the Starstone Isle. Absalom itself claims
the whole of Kortos and Erran as its political domain, but many of the islands’
wilder regions are effectively lawless wilderness. The Kortos Consortium of
Diobel (technically a part of Absalom’s regional government) has generally good
relations with the rugged Inlanders who dwell in the hills and deep forests of
Kortos, as these hardy folk provide much of the labor behind the Consortium’s
fur, farming, and lumber trades.

Relations with the agents of Absalom proper—often in the form of altercations
with the First Guard’s Eagle Garrison patrols— are a cause of some tension with
the Inlanders, but the openly hostile threats posed by minotaurs, harpies, and
centaurs are often a far more pressing concern.

## AEON TOWERS

Aroden erected each of the four ancient mud-brick towers on the island’s western
plains, as well as an identical structure on the Isle of Erran, in the first
decades of the island’s settlement to house the *aeon orbs*, large crystal
spheres that emit a nutritive radiation in a 15-mile radius.

According to popular lore, Aroden liberated the orbs from a vast vault in the
Darklands and brought them to Kortos to benefit humanity. For millennia they
enhanced agriculture on Kortos, but Aroden’s death over a century ago damaged
the divine magic that had protected the towers and kept the *aeon orbs* safe,
and now two of the towers no longer function as they were intended.

## ARODEN: LEGACY OF A DEAD GOD

While the church of Aroden no longer functions as a religious order, the church
of Aroden as a political institution still lives on a century after its god’s
apparent death. With nearly 5,000 years of dominance in Absalom’s civic and
religious affairs, the presence of the Last Azlanti and his clergy is felt
everywhere in Absalom, from the Founding Laws Aroden inscribed upon giant stone
tablets to create the city’s government to structures like Azlanti Keep that are
said to have been constructed according to his specific design.
